# `snail-scheme`

(WIP)

`snail-scheme` is my personal minimal Scheme implementation.

It offers a nice-to-use C++ API that is easily extended using C++'s native OOP
principles.

It includes a basic interpreter (SSI) written in C++.
- the interpreter is based on Ch4 of ["Three Implementations"](/doc/three-imp.pdf), a dissertation by Kent Dybvig, author of Chez Scheme. It uses a stack-based VM.
  - the use of a byte-code VM is key to realizing Scheme's continuations and 
    tail-recursion: this implementation (and all future implementations) will be 
    properly tail-recursive.
- the `object.hh` header contains the `OBJECT` datatype, which offers an efficient representation of latently typed objects within C++.
  - `OBJECT` instances will also offer support for manually-invoked mark-and-sweep GC.
- extensions in Scheme's environment are provided by specially bound closures.
- WIP: macros

## Language Features / Digressions from Scheme

0.  Language is dynamically typed, but with support for 'assert' (cf Typed Racket) for refinement typing upon monotype system
1.  No block comments supported
2.  Like R7RS and unlike older Scheme revisions, identifiers are case-sensitive.

## Build instructions

0.  Ensure you run `git submodule update --init --recursive` to fetch all dependencies.
1.  Build with CMake: will require a C++20-compliant compiler.

## Plan

Many features to implement!

1.  STABLE SINGLE THREADED EXECUTION

    -   run GC in single-threaded mode: perform necessary plumbing.
    -   update VM to latest available version of three-imp: this will allow 
        divergence from three-imp to support multithreading once stack is finalized.
    -   basic feature bucket
        -   (from three-imp) get global IDs working
            -   can use `define` in local contexts as a shorthand for `push`
        -   repair EXT_Callable, better define `include` behavior, modules?
            -   http://www.phyast.pitt.edu/~micheles/scheme/scheme19.html
            -   ~maybe R7RS-Large supports modules?~
            
                Look into how `libraries` work in R7RS-Small spec

                https://elmord.org/blog/?entry=20171003-r7rs-libraries-records-exceptions
        -   implement macros
        -   get GC traces working now that stack design is finalized
        -   use stored 'f' frame reference on stack to restore on return,
            thereby supporting arbitrary `push` and variadic arguments
            (basically dynamically-sized stacks).
    -   improvement feature bucket
        -   allow instructions to select allocator between stack and heap:
            can perform lifetime analysis
        -   detect and transform IIFEs (especially from de-sugared 'let')
            -   can resolve as `define` aka `push`
            -   can solve more generally using lifetime analysis, symbolic 
                evaluation/reduction
        -   extend and improve compiler to deal with refinements for 
            optimization
            -   can add explicit type-checking instructions, make all 
                functions un-type-checked, and then elide unnecessary 
                type-checks statically.
            -   can reduce any pure function symbolically for efficiency
        -   implement more language/library features, including...
            -   basic data-structures and more standard-compliance stuff
            -   hash-maps
        -   LLVM IR generation + Scheme front-end
            -   easily generated by template compilation using current interpreter
            -   LLVM IR can be compiled to assembly targets too: provides optimized packaging.
            -   so we can specify packages, builds, projects.
            -   so we can generate LLVM IR code at run-time.
        -   shader DSLs targeting WebGL or SPIRV
        
2.  MULTI-THREADED EXECUTION

    -   Single-threaded mode is the primary mode of operation, but the VM can
        instantiate a global Reactor if they so desire.

        The reactor is the ~preferred~ only way to do multi-threading in 
        Snail-Scheme, and offers a job system with grand central dispatch.
    
    -   The reactor only runs on non-main threads, and only runs in the background,
        so the main thread must still read output from the reactor via **channels**,
        which are `SmtFifo<OBJECT>` classes that implement `IBoxedObject`

    -   Channels should behave like ports in that they are just IDs (names) that are
        unique per-instance.

    -   The reactor is more of an accelerator than a primary workhorse.
    
        It can be used by standard libraries.

        E.g. windowing and 3D game engine can both use the reactor as a generic
        event pump and job manager.
    
    >   Consider: wouldn't it be better if the user generated 'kernels' in LLVM IR
    >   that could make better use of remaining cores?
    >   This would also embrace Scheme's strengths as a 'bootstrapping' language.

    >   Consider: main-thread restrictions for most GUI applications, overhead for 'thread-local' variables/
    >   synchronized globals.

    >   Consider: ease of virtual multiprocessing, as an easier way to utilize shared memory
    >   -   Can allow the user to pass objects directly through channels, we only serialize across native process boundaries.
    
3.  ACCELERATORS, DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING

    -   Key feature: ability to generate different code. <br/>
        => can target different kinds of bytecode via DSLs (e.g. SPIRV) <br/>
        => can compile and link own source code into a more efficient representation <br/>
        => interpreter is merely a platform for generating and running or dumping efficient, generated code.

    -   Channels should be diversified into...
        -   DmaChannels: used to communicate with reactor workers, drivers
        -   NetworkChannels: used to communicate with clients over TCP/IP, HTTPS, etc
        -   Since channels are nominal...
            -   can emulate Pi calculus and use same code with 'channel' interface
            -   can replicate environment on all distributed nodes so code can be 
                exchanged and run (cf `delay` and `force`)
