### R7RS

The R7RS-Small `define-library` system allows libraries to be defined as a part of regular script evaluation.
Libraries are self-contained, and exist in an encapsulated orphan context from the main top-level program.
They then export their symbols back to the top-level program in which they were defined.
-   see: [`r7rs-small.pdf`](/doc/r7rs-small.pdf)
-   see: https://www.scheme.com/csug8/libraries.html

### Snail-Scheme

> Allow `import` and `export` in top-level scopes. <br/>
> Projects are tree-like graphs with 'root' at entry-point script. <br/>
> The directory containing the entry-point script may contain special directories, e.g. `dep`, `obj`, and `bin`.

Top-level programs and libraries are both implemented as 'module' objects in Snail-Scheme.
- the top-level program is one module, each library is another
  - this allows the user to easily reuse each program as a library
  - like Python, it is possible to use `cond-expand` to control whether or not the entry-point function is run based
    on a provided value that tells us if this is main or not.  
- each module has a constructor that is run once for each import.
- each module has definitions that contain top-level bindings
  - includes macro bindings (non-first-class) as well as regular function bindings
- EXTENSION: the end-user can `import` or `include` source-files: if `import`, then only `export`-ed symbols provided.
  - `include` and `include-ci` still provided for Scheme compatibility.
  - `import` and `export` are library declaration statements that can be used in the top-level as well.

Each module has its own globals table: the compiler builds one module at a time, and handles imports and exports
between modules via alias slots in the importer's globals table
- the number and names of alias slots should be determined at compile-time
- these should be initialized automatically when a module is constructed based on a 'dependencies' table provided at 
  construction time.

All globals are defined with either `define`, `define-library`, `define-values`, or `define-syntax`, including 
within top-level `begin` blocks (exclusively so for `define-library`).

The VM links all these definitions together in a vector just before running, but after compiling per-module global tables.
- Take several global tables and link them into one global table, complaining if any conflicts are found. <br/>
  This implies generating a GDefID rewrite table and rewriting each relevant expression in the VCode.
- Macros are also loaded for reflection.
