# Plan 1

A planning document.

## Status Quo

At the time of writing...
- interpreter based on Ch4 is complete and appears to work in most cases, though 
  rigorous testing remains.
- macro expansion is a top priority, but is a huge pain in the butt.
- garbage collection is a close second priority, since it is required for 
  practical use.
- performance still lags behind Chez Scheme severely, presumably due to 
  interpreter overhead.

## Roadmap

End-goal: an LLVM-targeting Scheme implementation that uses the machine stack
and LLVM's must-tail call annotation.

Phase 1: finish MVP with interpreter
- implement macro expansion in C++
  - NOTE: on closer reading of R7RS-small, it seems that `cond-expand` depends
    on feature requirements that are easily resolved statically without the use
    of `eval` or phase-based compilation. This means no interpretation is 
    required to resolve `cond-expand`, at least for MVP.
- implement garbage collection
  - add reference counting to object system: note that immutable datums cannot
    produce cycles, which significantly reduces the need for GC.
  - enables use of Perceus reference counting, see Phase 2.

Phase 2: LLVM compiler
- refactor existing C++ code, splitting into...
  - `core`: provides object system, garbage collector.
  - `interp`: provides an interpreter using `core`.
  - `rt-lib`: runtime library = `core` + `interp` with a C interface. <br/>
    Provides object system, garbage collection, and `interp` for `eval` by 
    depending on `core` and `interp`.
- implement a brand-new optimizing compiler from scratch in Scheme that emits 
  LLVM.
  - runs on existing `interp`, using `p/invoke` to call certain exposed LLVM
    functions. NOTE: `p/invoke` may be a misnomer since manual marshalling 
    wrapper is required.
  - emits LLVM code in CPS, such that every function call has the `must_tail`
    attribute, functions are split by calls to `call/cc`. Cf `async/await` in 
    contemporary languages.
    - uses Perceus reference-counting to determine all `dup` and `drop` 
      operations ahead-of-time.
    - pins all stack objects for use as GC roots.
    - dynamically links against `rt-lib`.
  - after testing, this compiler can compile itself to produce an efficient 
    binary-redistributable version of itself.
  - new workflow is that...
    - interpreter is used for...
      - development, interactive prompts, testing.
      - debugging => want to expand interp with better source annotations and
        stack maps.
      - providing `eval` even in production code (AoT codegen is preferred).
      - quick development
    - compiler is used for...
      - release distributions without any debug information
    - interpreter and compiler should function identically.
    - QUESTION: why not just implement a compiler, ditch the interpreter?
      - Still want to preserve native object system and GC (`core`).
        I am sorely tempted to re-implement this in Rust instead of C++, but C++
        is a better fit for this problem-set and provides first-class LLVM APIs.
      - Still need to provide `eval` functionality (`interp`), though that this 
        can be re-implemented in Scheme once compiler is mature, albeit while
        complicating bootstrapping.
  
Phase 3: expansion, now that a compiler is present.
- gradual typing => much better optimization
  - e.g. for polymorphic variables, can remove GC-root annotations if can 
    guarantee that possible monomorphs are all unboxed.
  - e.g. for monomorphic variables, can mark as instances of 'native' datatypes, 
    e.g. `i8, i16, i32, i64`, `u8, u16, ...`, `f32, f64`, `(Dense-Array T)`, 
    etc. This produces significant optimization gains, partly by unboxing as
    above.
  - e.g. enables type-checked C++ interop, especially if we allow users to write
    and wrap their own C++ functions for frameworks; we can extract the 
    type-spec associated with each function without additional user annotation,
    then use this information to verify typing at boundaries.
  - enables memory reuse by Perceus reference counting system.
- custom reader support (cf Racket)
- support for more targets, e.g. WASM32
  - key inhibitors of good WASM32 support now is...
    - lack of widespread support for tail calls, though these instructions can
      still be emitted.
    - lack of support for `i31ref` in WABT, requiring us to ship our own GC.
- user-defined C++ libraries (extension libraries)
  - a big reason for Python's success is its ease of extensibility; can 
    replicate this.
  - IDEA: use concepts to abstract over a specific `OBJECT` implementation.
    - makes same library source code compatible with different implementations
      of Scheme, solving CPython extension stickiness.
    - enables use of template specializations to differentiate between 32-bit
      and 64-bit `Object` type instances.
- ...
